# The Gameplan

Created: June 7, 2023 5:53 AM

### Tactics

Now that we’ve gone through **what** you’ll be doing and **why** you’ll be doing it, let’s look at **how** you’ll do it.

Achieving growth on LinkedIn is a matter of being consistent with certain activities.

The following is a list of common things that, if you repeatedly do, will help you achieve your goals faster:

1. **Like and reply to every comment** your post gets with genuine replies. If possible, try to kick off a conversation. This is a great way to build relationships with people who comment on your posts often. However, sometimes, there’s not much to go on/say, so a simple “thanks for watching/reading” will do. The point is, just like everything else, don’t force it.
2. **Send a connection request** to people in your target audience who react or comment on your post if they don’t already follow you.
3. **React and comment on** your post whenever someone shares it and thank them for sharing it.
4. **Comment on the posts** of the original 10 people ****you followed and other creators you’ve begun following. Try to comment on at least 3-5 posts per day with something of value. The more/better you do this, the more likely it is for other creators to support your posts and take out time for things like Zoom calls, collabs, etc. down the road.
5. **Search for new people** within your target audience/ICP and connect with them. You should aim to connect with at least 15-20 new people per week through this method alone.
6. **Stay tuned in to your industry** to provide your own perspective on current topics/events, spot new trends, come up with ideas for new content, and to deepen your knowledge.
7. **Build each post around it benefiting** your reader and nothing more. Your sole focus should be to provide your audience with something of value. Ultimately you want to provide them with insightful substance, interesting perspectives, or relevant entertainment. If you can do all three, even better.
8. **Experiment with different styles and angles** of content to find the best types of content for your audience.
9. **Check the performance of your posts** through LinkedIn’s native analytics and other platforms to understand which types of posts do well and work best for your audience.
10. **Post consistently,** whether it be a text post, a funny marketing video, or a snippet from a new podcast episode. The single biggest contributor to growth on this platform is showing up consistently with good stuff.
11. **Reach out** to people who's content you've been engaging with, and the people who have been engaging with your content, and set up Zoom calls to meet/chat more.
12. **Don’t connect** and pitch, spam people, be a troll, put people down, etc. In other words, don’t bother people.

As simple as it may sound, consistent and sustainable growth can be summed up to these 12 tactics.

### Putting It All Together

It feels awesome to gain momentum with creating content, growing your following, meeting with people, etc.

But to be as effective as possible, don’t go too hard to begin with.

As in, if you're just getting the hang of it, you don't wanna jump straight to Zoom calls.

This is a long-term process so there's no need to rush or do a ton at once.

So, I've taken the 12 tactics mentioned earlier and spread them across a 4-month gameplan.

Here’s what I recommend you do for the next 4 months (if you're already actively posting, just skip to month 3 when you've gone through everything up to this point).

### **Month 1**

In order to stand out, you have to first get noticed.

For that reason, your first month will focus on connecting and engaging with the right people to grow the right relationships.

Without doing this first, you’re not properly setting yourself up to build an engaging following and will be, in a way, speaking into the void.

It sounds obvious but you wouldn't target lawyers if you're a doctor, right?

In the same sense, people will post on LinkedIn, not get much engagement, and then turn around and think their content sucks.

That's not true. Many times, you've probably just connected with anyone and everyone. You could be posting about demand gen, or sales tips, or creativity, etc. but you're connected with people in all sorts of roles in all sorts of industries (it's how people end up with 20,000 followers and 3-9 likes on all their recent posts).

As a result, there's a small portion of your actual audience (as in, your connections) that are actually interested in what you're posting about.

Then, you see your post get however many thousand impressions but only 6 likes and you think it's your content.

But it's really just your audience, or lack thereof.

So, you need to make *your audience* (your connections) reflect your audience (your company's ICP, people in your TAM, your customers, industry peers, etc.).

The following is what your first month on LinkedIn could consist of:

- Update your LinkedIn profile according to the [optimization guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1dsYCr_D6wsb29gG31MpSDlh8w-8tORl_xilm4tDBW3w/edit?usp=sharing)
- Find and connect with relevant people in your industry who are active on LinkedIn
- Find and follow 10-20 people and understand their content creation/writing style
- Ring the notification bell on their profile so you get notified whenever they publish a new post
- React to and comment on every post they come out with. Make sure it’s a genuine comment (use your best judgment on whether it should be an insightful comment or a supportive one). *But please don't be that person who is clearly just "leaving a valuable comment" by literally just expanding on what the author said to try and hijack their audience.*
- Make sure to leave concise comments, since it’s more likely for people to engage with meaningful and well-thought-out comments as opposed to long, rambling ones.
- High-performing comments can help you gain engagement from new people, gain new followers, and come up with ideas for new posts. And again, they can help you find your space (like-minded creators in your industry you can learn from, teach, etc.), your voice, and topics that resonate with your audience.
- Check out who likes your comments and connect with the people that fit your ICP/TAM.
- Try commenting on 3-5 posts per day (whether it's the people who's bells you rung or other people you connected with who post something you like)
- Towards the end of the month, you can start posting, but it's not required

### **Month 2**

Starting in this month, you're going to start posting.

Refer back to the [types of post section](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZBPbhR9YpLAuDx0sjqUwwwcexG-fM5jQA-0DNdeUkNI/edit#heading=h.ynkpe6bik6l0) and the [coming up with ideas section](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZBPbhR9YpLAuDx0sjqUwwwcexG-fM5jQA-0DNdeUkNI/edit#heading=h.275nexw1myh4) if you need inspo.

The following is what month two will consist of:

- Continue executing the tactics from month 1
- Start posting at least twice per week (remember, a good percentage of your posts should be built on your company’s narrative/realm of relevancy)
- If DMs start popping up, awesome, engage and see where they go
- You don't immediately have to start posting from month two, but you want to make sure you've started posting by two weeks in

### **Month 3**

After two months of engaging and connecting, and a few weeks of posting, you're building up an awesome audience and gaining a clearer vision of your content strategy.

You will also have a better understanding of who your audience is and what kind of content resonates with them.

The following is what month three will consist of:

- You should begin posting 3 times per week, consistently.
- Begin reaching out to people whose content you’ve engaged with. This could simply be to thank them for making awesome content or to ask them if they’d be up for a Zoom call. Your goal here is to deepen your relationship.
- Experiment with different types of content, create all types of different posts, publish at different times.
- Use this month as a month of experimentation to understand things like when your audience is most active, what type of posts work best, which topics hit the hardest, etc.
- Continue executing [The Tactics](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ZBPbhR9YpLAuDx0sjqUwwwcexG-fM5jQA-0DNdeUkNI/edit#heading=h.ykcvvrojibe6).

### **Month 4**

- Refine your content strategy by looking into your experiments and finding your 2 or 3 highest performing posts, then begin focusing on just those types of posts.
- Post 3-5 times per week, consistently, but only once per every 24 hours. To achieve this, you’ll want to begin building out a backlog of content.
- Begin reaching out to people who engage with your content and thank them for engaging. The goal here is to deepen your relationship with your audience, so if your message leads to a conversation, which leads to a Zoom call just to catch up - perfect.
- Start thinking about how you can further dive into the topics of your best performing posts.
- Start thinking of how you can turn similar types of content into a recurring series.
- Continue executing The Tactics.

From here, you know what to do.

Just keep doing it. 💪🏼